# PiKey

Raspberry Pi 3 + Teensy 3.2 = PiKey: a USB gadget on steroids!!!

There has been a lot of interest recently over the use of the new Pi Zero as a USB gadget. This reminded me of an idea I had several months ago but hadn't had time to pursue. I came across some Youtube videos and websites that used the Teensy as the controller of various Human Interface Devices (HID), keyboards, mice and so forth. Some of them were just clones of the kind of off the shelf kit you could pick up in any electrical retailer. But some of them seemed to be either superior to the original: like programmable split keyboards; or just plain original: like a one-handed glove keyboard.

This is all well and good but there was one seemingly small project that caught my eye http://www.goewert.org/2012/08/teensytyper-teensyduino-usb-keyboard.html. The site belongs to John Goewert and he programmed his Teensy to automate logging into various different servers at work. This saves him having to lug a keyboard around and having to remember various different passwords etc. Pretty neat. Most people have a number of monotonous, repetitive tasks they are obliged to undertake at work. Furthermore, some of the projects I came across harness a Pi in combination with one or more Teensy boards so I know that I should be able to get them talking to each other. There are also countless examples of Pi powered laptops and tablets. What if the two were merged? The Pi is the brains of the operation and uses the Teensy as a mouth and ears to interact with a PC. Or, as I imagine it in my head, the Teensy is the Babel fish in H2G2 mediating communication and the Pi is Deep Thought and does all the heavy lifting. Instead of hardcoding Teensy as a keyboard or mouse or even emulating the same without a physical HID. Why can't you programme it as an emulator and store far more complicated sequences on the Pi which are piped over the wires as required? Why can't it inject pre-configured keystrokes AND take user input from an on-screen keyboard from the Pi's touchscreen. Why can't it also act as a USB mass storage device and automate backups or data transfers? Why can't it supply an internet connection over GSM when the network has crashed? Why can't it be a pentesting device? Why can't it act as a display for a headless device? Why can't it do all of these things at the same time? If it can't, why can't it be re-programmed on the fly, switching between different modes of operation?

All of which got me thinking about Larry Wall's Three Great Virtues: Laziness, Impatience and Hubris. I'm VERY lazy and I'm prepared to work VERY hard at being lazy! I want something like this ASAFP! Despite endless searching I haven't really found it yet. So, I'm going to have to do it myself despite lacking any real skill or talent. And it is going to be SO much better. Bigger, faster, fitter, happier, more productive with gold bells and platinum whistles. For it's diminuitive size (they're called Teensy for a reason!) it packs a lot of punch but there are clearly limits. The TeensyTyper is featherweight, it's Prince Naseem Hamed versus Barry McGuigan at the Sheffield Arena, sitting in Row Z next to the toilets with Helga, the prison officer. You know, the one with the squiffy eye and the orthopaedic shoe; drinks cider and black down the Working Mens Club. Which is OK. But I want to be ringside for Mike Tyson versus Muhammad Ali at the MGM Grand. Miss Universe on one arm and Miss World on the other wearing a $20,000 Chinchilla coat and sipping Crystal. 

Given the hoohaa around the Pi Zero's gadget mode, why not be happy with that? Well it's close but it's no cigar. OK, if they were all cigars, Teensy is a cigarillo, Zero is a King Edward, PiKey is a Gran Corona hand rolled on a dusky maidens thigh under a palm tree. It was easier to do cigars than think of a couple of middleweights.

Now I'm not a hardware guy and I'm not a software guy either. What I am is an enthusiastic amateur...but I'd like to turn pro. I think I have displayed an ample amount of the Three Virtues, don't you? Anyway, I saw this post http://bigl.es/page/3/ (no, it isn't a topless shot of a WWII flying ace, nor are they pictures large women with sensible shoes) a couple of weeks back and it got me thinking - if he can do it, why can't I? The only thing stopping me (apart from the lack of ability and technical knowledge) is my own inaction. I can sit at my desk mindlessly typing, pointing and clicking and loathing every minute of it for a reasonable salary or I can make every attempt possible to get the fudge out of Rog and find some fulfilling role. Money doesn't make you happy, although it does pay the bills, and if your work is also your hobby it doesn't seem like work. So, this is the hopefully the first of a series of steps down a different path. Here's to Big Les, slainte mhath!

You can follow progress here and on the Pi forum https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=41&t=161279. I'm also working on my own webserver to host the project logs and whatever else takes my fancy. I'll post a link shortly when it's online. If you have any observations, comments, criticisms or would like to help in even the most trivial of ways then I'm all ears.

